---
layout: default
title: People
pageclass: people
---

h1. Members

h2. Faculty

* "Fred Popowich":http://www.cs.sfu.ca/~popowich
* "Anoop Sarkar":http://www.cs.sfu.ca/~anoop

h2. Postdoctoral Fellows

* "Mark Schmidt":http://www.di.ens.fr/~mschmidt/ (July 2013 -- July 2014)

h2. Ph.D. Students

* "Ann Clifton":http://www.cs.sfu.ca/~aca69/personal
* Anahita Mansouri
* "Baskaran Sankaran":http://www.cs.sfu.ca/~bsa33/personal
* "Maryam Siahbani":http://www.cs.sfu.ca/~msiahban/personal
* "Milan Tofiloski":http://www.cs.sfu.ca/~mta45/personal

h2. Masters Students

* "Te Bu":http://www.sfu.ca/~tbu
* "Rohit Dholakia":http://rohitdholakia.com
* "Bradley Ellert":http://ca.linkedin.com/in/bellert/
* Willem (Bruce) Krayenhoff
* David Lindberg
* Lydia Odilinye
* "Jasneet Sabharwal":http://www.sfu.ca/~jsabharw
* "Mehdi Soleimani":http://www.sfu.ca/~mahdis
* "Ramtin Mehdizadeh Seraj":http://www.sfu.ca/~rmehdiza

h2. Undergraduate Students

* Te Bu (Summer 2013)
* Yuhuan Jiang ("MITACS Globalink":http://www.mitacs.ca/main.php?mid=10000426&pid=347 July 2013)
* Haotian Zhang (SFU) -- Summer 2013, Fall 2013
* Ziqi Wang (SFU) -- Summer 2013, Fall 2013

h1. Adjunct Members
* Dan Fass

h2. SFU Linguistics

* "Chung-hye Han":http://www.sfu.ca/~chunghye/
* "Paul McFetridge":http://www.sfu.ca/~mcfet/personal/
* "Maite Taboada":http://www.sfu.ca/~mtaboada/

h2. Students

* Stephen Makonin

h1. Lab Alumnae and Alumni

h2. Ph.D. Students

* Caroline Barrière -- Research Officer, Interactive Language Technologies, NRC Institute for Information Technology
* Baohua Gu
* "David Gerhard":http://www2.cs.uregina.ca/~gerhard/ -- Associate Professor, University of Regina
* "Gholamreza Haffari":http://www.cs.sfu.ca/~ghaffar1/personal -- Tenure-track faculty member at "Monash University":http://www.monash.edu.au/, Melbourne, Australia
* Eli Hagen
* Petr Kubon -- Director of Research and Development, Recombo
* "Yudong Liu":http://www.sfu.ca/~yudongl/ -- Lecturer, "Western Washington University":http://www.wwu.edu/
* T. (Pat) Pattabhiraman -- Senior engineer in computational linguistics, Core Technology Group, Conversay, Redmond, WA
* Majid Razmara -- Co-founder and CTO at "MetaOptima":http://www.metaoptima.com/
* "Maxim Roy":http://www.cs.sfu.ca/~maximr/personal/ -- "Northside Inc.":http://northsideinc.com/
* Zhongmin Shi -- CEO, Summba.com
* "Tomek Strzalkowski":http://www.cs.albany.edu/~tomek/ -- Associate Professor, SUNY Albany
* "Jörg Überla":http://www.linkedin.com/pub/j%C3%B6rg-%C3%BCberla/0/3a9/286 -- Venture Partner at Wellington Partners
* Manuel Zahariev -- CTO, Vision Critical

h2. Masters Students

* Zahra Behfarshad (UBC student, worked as programmer on our Lensing Wikipedia project)
* "Ravikiran Vadlapudi":http://www.cs.sfu.ca/~rvadlapu/personal -- Nuance Communications, Montreal
* "Marzieh Razavi":http://www.cs.sfu.ca/~mrazavi/personal -- Ph.D. student at EPFL
* "Max Whitney":http://www.cs.sfu.ca/~mwhitney/personal -- Learning Chinese in Taiwan
* Julia Birke -- SAP Business Objects
* "Ann Clifton":http://www.cs.sfu.ca/~aca69/personal -- back for Ph.D.
* Nicolas Demers
* Cesar Dragunsky
* Akshay Gattani -- Zeugma Systems
* Ajeet Grewal -- BC Ferries
* Fahim Hasan
* Mehdi Kashani -- Innovative Information
* Young-chan Kim -- Ph.D. student at University of Texas at Dallas
* Tomohiko Kimura
* Sandi Kodric -- Co-Founder of "Vzajemci d.o.o.":http://vzajemci.com/
* "Fred Kroon":http://www.cs.uwaterloo.ca/~fwkroon/ -- Ph.D. candidate at University of Waterloo
* Milan Mosny -- President, Response42.com
* Porus Patell -- Translation Division, SAP
* Hong Shen -- Microsoft
* Dong Song -- Accenture
* Scott Stoness -- Ph.D. candidate at University of Rochester
* Javier Thaine -- Microsoft
* Carl Vogel -- Senior Lecturer, Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland
* Wendy Wang -- Post graduate in information management in health care at Conestoga College
* "Bruce Wiebe":http://www.twu.ca/academics/faculty/profiles/wiebe-bruce.html -- Instructor in Linguistics at Trinity Western University
* "Winona Wu":http://www.sfu.ca/~winonaw/ -- SAP Business Objects
* Yingjian Zhang -- FinancialCAD Corp., BC

h2. Undergraduate Students

* Mengyun Kong. SFU-Zhejiang University dual-degree program. 2011.
* Diptesh Chatterjee. IIT Kharagpur. 2010 ("MITACS Globalink":http://www.mitacs.ca/main.php?mid=10000426&pid=347)
* Manaal Faruqui. IIT Kharagpur. 2009 ("MITACS Globalink":http://www.mitacs.ca/main.php?mid=10000426&pid=347)
* Max Whitney. SFU. 2009

