---
layout: post
title: "NAACL Newsletter v2, no 2"
root: ../../
---

NAACL Newsletter Volume 2, Number 2 (May 2002)
===============================================

Contents
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Elections
2. ACL-02
3. NAACL-03 and Merger with HLT
4. NAACL Support for Students at JHU Summer School
5. Proposed Schedule of NAACL, EACL, and ACL Meetings


Fall 2001 Election Results
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The NAACL election in the fall of 2001 produced the following results.

* Chair: Diane Litman (renewed)
* Secretary: Claire Cardie (renewed)
* Treasurer: Dragomir Radev
* New Chapter Board members: Lynette Hirschman, Owen Rambow
* Continuing members of the Chapter Board: Graeme Hirst, Daniel Jurafsky
* Ex-offico members: Sandra Carberry, Kathleen McCoy

All Chapter Board members are elected for 2 year terms.  There will be
an election for two Chapter Board members this fall.  Any North
American member of ACL can run for these positions -- if you would
like to nominate yourself or someone else, please contact the head of
the nominating committee, Lori Levin (lsl@cs.cmu.edu).  For all other
positions, the next elections will be in the fall of 2003.


No Meeting of the NAACL this Year
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since ACL is in North America this year (July 8-10 in Philadelphia),
there is no separate meeting of NAACL.  NAACL is co-hosting ACL.


NAACL-03 and HLT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

As announced in our previous newsletter, we have started planning for
NAACL03 and have decided to merge the conference with HLT, the
conference on Human Language Technology.  This is an experiment, and
we are now committed only for 2003, after which time we will assess
the success of the merged conference.  The goal of the merger is to
combine the best of the two conferences, specifically, the high
standard of full paper reviews for NAACL and the broader range of
topics of HLT.  We feel that NLP researchers and the broader HLT
community will both benefit from increased exposure and exchange of
ideas.  Furthermore, we feel that the division into an "applied"
conference and a main conference (presumably more theoretical in
outlook) is somewhat artificial, as applications have always been
featured in the main conference as well, and as the line between
application and more fundamental research is not always that clear in
our discipline.

To plan the conference, an Advisory Board has been formed, whose
members include three representatives from NAACL (Graeme Hirst, its
chair; Lynette Hirschman; Dragomir Radev), three representatives from
US funding agencies (Karen Kukich, NSF; John Prange, ARDA; Charles
Wayne, DARPA), a representative from the IR community (Donna Harman,
NIST), a representative from the speech community (Salim Roukos, IBM),
and a co-chair of HLT2002 (David Yarowsky, JHU).  The Advisory Board
proceeds by consensus, and the NAACL members of the Advisory Board
will refer all important decisions for ratification by the entire
NAACL Chapter Board.  The Advisory Board has decided to name Eduard
Hovy as General Chair, and Marti Hearst and Mari Ostendorf have agreed
to serve as PC co-chairs.  They will appoint area chairs.  Needless to
say, acceptance of submissions will be, as always, entirely based on
merit; the members of the Advisory Board will have no direct influence
on the selection of papers to be presented at the conference.  It is
the intention of the NAACL Chapter Board that the merged conference
will include all the research areas of previous NAACL, ACL, and HLT
conferences; further details will be elaborated by the PC.

The conference will take place May 31 - June 4, 2003, in Edmonton,
Alberta, Canada.  Dekang Lin has kindly agreed to serve as Local
Arrangements Chair.

We are excited about HLT/NAACL-2003 and we think it will provide a
good opportunity for us to present our work to a larger audience.  We
encourage NAACL members to share suggestions about the merged
conference with the NAACL Chapter Board (naacl-comments@aclweb.org).



NAACL Support for Students at the JHU Summer School
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Following some suggestions from members, the Chapter Board has decided
to cooperate with Johns Hopkins's CSLP Summer School on Human Language
Technology to fund 5-10 undergraduate and graduate students to attend
the 10 day course that takes place before the workshop.  The course
covers NLP and speech, with much hands-on work.  As this year the
10-day course overlaps with ACL, the scholarship includes ACL
attendance fee(the students will miss three days of course work,
mainly related to speech and IR).  This experiment will be repeated
two more times, at which time we will evaluate the experience.  We are
also considering expanding our support to include cooperation with
other relevant North American summer schools.

More information on the course:
http://www.clsp.jhu.edu/ws2002/calendar/preliminary.shtml, and on the
scholarships:
http://www.cs.cornell.edu/home/cardie/naacl/summer-school/summer-school-home.html


Proposed Schedule of NAACL, EACL, and ACL Meetings
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

These are the conferences as scheduled for 2002 and 2003.  The
deadlines for main session paper submissions are being coordinated
among the three 2003 conferences; details will be published as we get
closer.

### 2002
    ACL (NAACL) Philadelphia, July 7-12

### 2003
    EACL        Budapest, Hungary, April 12-17 or April 23-27
    NAACL-HLT   Edmonton, Canada, May 31- June 4
    ACL         Sapporo, Japan, July 7-12

