<html xmlns:v="urn:schemas-microsoft-com:vml"
xmlns:o="urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"
xmlns:w="urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:word"
xmlns:m="http://schemas.microsoft.com/office/2004/12/omml"
xmlns:css="http://macVmlSchemaUri" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-html40">

<head>
<meta name=Title content="">
<meta name=Keywords content="">
<meta http-equiv=Content-Type content="text/html; charset=macintosh">
<meta name=ProgId content=Word.Document>
<meta name=Generator content="Microsoft Word 2008">
<meta name=Originator content="Microsoft Word 2008">
<link rel=File-List href="BoardMeeting31May2009_files/filelist.xml">
<!--[if gte mso 9]><xml>
 <o:DocumentProperties>
  <o:Author>Suzanne Stevenson</o:Author>
  <o:Template>Normal.dotm</o:Template>
  <o:LastAuthor>Suzanne Stevenson</o:LastAuthor>
  <o:Revision>2</o:Revision>
  <o:TotalTime>7</o:TotalTime>
  <o:LastPrinted>2009-07-14T16:29:00Z</o:LastPrinted>
  <o:Created>2010-01-12T16:53:00Z</o:Created>
  <o:LastSaved>2010-01-12T16:53:00Z</o:LastSaved>
  <o:Pages>1</o:Pages>
  <o:Words>1396</o:Words>
  <o:Characters>7962</o:Characters>
  <o:Company>University of Toronto</o:Company>
  <o:Lines>66</o:Lines>
  <o:Paragraphs>15</o:Paragraphs>
  <o:CharactersWithSpaces>9777</o:CharactersWithSpaces>
  <o:Version>12.0</o:Version>
 </o:DocumentProperties>
 <o:OfficeDocumentSettings>
  <o:AllowPNG/>
 </o:OfficeDocumentSettings>
</xml><![endif]--><!--[if gte mso 9]><xml>
 <w:WordDocument>
  <w:SpellingState>Clean</w:SpellingState>
  <w:GrammarState>Clean</w:GrammarState>
  <w:TrackMoves>false</w:TrackMoves>
  <w:TrackFormatting/>
  <w:DisplayHorizontalDrawingGridEvery>0</w:DisplayHorizontalDrawingGridEvery>
  <w:DisplayVerticalDrawingGridEvery>0</w:DisplayVerticalDrawingGridEvery>
  <w:UseMarginsForDrawingGridOrigin/>
  <w:ValidateAgainstSchemas>false</w:ValidateAgainstSchemas>
  <w:SaveIfXMLInvalid>false</w:SaveIfXMLInvalid>
  <w:IgnoreMixedContent>false</w:IgnoreMixedContent>
  <w:AlwaysShowPlaceholderText>false</w:AlwaysShowPlaceholderText>
  <w:DoNotUnderlineInvalidXML/>
  <w:Compatibility>
   <w:BreakWrappedTables/>
   <w:UseNormalStyleForList/>
   <w:DontUseIndentAsNumberingTabStop/>
   <w:DontGrowAutofit/>
   <w:FELineBreak11/>
   <w:WW11IndentRules/>
   <w:DontAutofitConstrainedTables/>
   <w:AutofitLikeWW11/>
   <w:HangulWidthLikeWW11/>
  </w:Compatibility>
 </w:WordDocument>
</xml><![endif]--><!--[if gte mso 9]><xml>
 <w:LatentStyles DefLockedState="false" LatentStyleCount="276">
 </w:LatentStyles>
</xml><![endif]-->
<style>
<!--
 /* Font Definitions */
@font-face
	{font-family:Cambria;
	panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4;
	mso-font-charset:0;
	mso-generic-font-family:auto;
	mso-font-pitch:variable;
	mso-font-signature:3 0 0 0 1 0;}
 /* Style Definitions */
p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal
	{mso-style-parent:"";
	margin-top:0in;
	margin-right:0in;
	margin-bottom:10.0pt;
	margin-left:0in;
	mso-pagination:widow-orphan;
	font-size:12.0pt;
	font-family:"Times New Roman";
	mso-fareast-font-family:Cambria;
	mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman";}
span.SpellE
	{mso-style-name:"";
	mso-spl-e:yes;}
span.GramE
	{mso-style-name:"";
	mso-gram-e:yes;}
@page Section1
	{size:8.5in 11.0in;
	margin:.75in 1.0in .75in 1.0in;
	mso-header-margin:.35in;
	mso-footer-margin:.55in;
	mso-paper-source:0;}
div.Section1
	{page:Section1;}
-->
</style>
<!--[if gte mso 10]>
<style>
 /* Style Definitions */
table.MsoNormalTable
	{mso-style-name:"Table Normal";
	mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0;
	mso-tstyle-colband-size:0;
	mso-style-noshow:yes;
	mso-style-parent:"";
	mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;
	mso-para-margin:0in;
	mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt;
	mso-pagination:widow-orphan;
	font-size:10.0pt;
	font-family:"Times New Roman";
	mso-ascii-font-family:Cambria;
	mso-hansi-font-family:Cambria;}
</style>
<![endif]--><!--[if gte mso 9]><xml>
 <o:shapedefaults v:ext="edit" spidmax="1026"/>
</xml><![endif]--><!--[if gte mso 9]><xml>
 <o:shapelayout v:ext="edit">
  <o:idmap v:ext="edit" data="1"/>
 </o:shapelayout></xml><![endif]-->
</head>

<body lang=EN-US style='tab-interval:.5in'>

<div class=Section1>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'><span style='font-size:14.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt'>NAACL Board
Meeting<o:p></o:p></span></b></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'><span style='font-size:14.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt'>Boulder,
Colorado<o:p></o:p></span></b></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'><span style='font-size:14.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt'>31 May 2009<o:p></o:p></span></b></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'>Present: </b>Chris Brew, Hal <span class=SpellE>Daume</span>, Graeme <span
class=SpellE>Hirst</span>, Rebecca <span class=SpellE>Hwa</span>, Chris
Manning, Ted Pedersen, Owen <span class=SpellE>Rambow</span>, Priscilla
Rasmussen, Suzanne Stevenson [present by phone, left before the end].</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'><u><span style='font-size:14.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt'>Financial
Items:<o:p></o:p></span></u></b></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'>Treasurer’s report:<o:p></o:p></b></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>See separate posting. </p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><span class=SpellE>NAACLs</span>
joint with ACL don’t bring in as much revenue as <span class=SpellE>NAACLs</span>
not joint with ACL, partly because the revenue is split with ACL, and partly
because <span class=SpellE>ACLs</span> don’t bring in as much.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Treasurer’s conclusion is still
that we’re not spending as much money as we could to support activities.<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>But Priscilla notes that you should
have one conference’s worth of costs, in case of unforeseen/unpredictable
circumstances (<span class=SpellE>eg</span>, have to cancel a conference, you
owe ~50%).<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>This means we need
around $100K in reserve.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Owen
suggests we should get guidance from ACL on how much chapters should have in
reserve &#8211; <span class=SpellE>ie</span>, how much will the parent
organization backstop the chapters.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Chris Manning suggests we can
safely spend about $20K on things like JHU Summer School and NACLO.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Offered student support for this
NAACL, but only announced it about 2 weeks before conference.<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Only got 4 requests.<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Issue of whether we should fund people
out of the Americas, also whether to fund students to attend student research
workshop.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>One idea is to fund
students in South America.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>We’ll return to issue of whether
and how to spend more money when we consider issues around Latin American
activities later.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'>Report on JHU Summer School:<o:p></o:p></b></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>We had 18 applicants and funded
11.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Our decisions favored students
earlier in their career and a limited number per advisor.<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Call for applications should go out
earlier, because decisions only went out less than 2 weeks before the start of
the summer school.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Part of problem
is <span class=SpellE>JHU’s</span> timing of determining whether and when to
run the summer school.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>We may want
to solicit applications earlier and cancel if we have to.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'><u><span style='font-size:14.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt'>Conferences:
</span></u></b><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:normal'><span style='font-size:
14.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt'><span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;</span><o:p></o:p></span></b></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'>[Joined by NAACL 2009 organizing committee.]<o:p></o:p></b></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Sponsorship policy/practice:
Sponsors are encouraged to participate in “3-packs” of conferences. Priscilla
always offers the 3-pack as providing more exposure, but clearly arranges
whatever the organization feels comfortable with.<span style="mso-spacerun:
yes">&nbsp; </span>Owen thinks we need to raise awareness of the options,
especially among sponsorship chairs.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'>Debrief on NAACL 2009:</b> </p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Priscilla presented registration
stats sheet.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>642 preregistered;
probably will end up around 700 with on-site.<span style="mso-spacerun:
yes">&nbsp; </span>This is right in the ballpark for good attendance.<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span><span class=SpellE>CoNLL</span>, <span
class=SpellE>BioNLP</span>, SST, <span class=SpellE>SIGDial</span> &#8211; all
drawing well, around 75-100.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>What is a good number of
tutorials?<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>In Priscilla’s
experience, 6 <span class=GramE>is</span> the optimal number.<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Basically, there <span class=GramE>is</span>
a fairly constant number of people who attend tutorials, and having more choice
of tutorials doesn’t attract significantly more people.<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Recommendation is to stick to 6
tutorials in the future.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Need to have clear web links to
ACL conference organization info, with addenda for NAACL.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Discussion of student travel
awards: some potential sponsors want to put certain conditions on sponsorship
money, e.g., as travel for certain types of students or given as award
presented at conference.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;
</span>Suggestions:<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>We need to
turn the issue over to the sponsorship committee, to determine policy to guide
these decisions.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Set up conference
calls among local sponsorship people and sponsorship committee.<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Send sponsorship guidelines to everyone
involved in conferences.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Might
make more sense to have two people doing local sponsorship.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Some comparison of NAACL 2009
dollar figures to NAACL 2006; 2009 looks good at this point.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>There was some feedback from
industry people that <span class=GramE>tutorials</span> were more appealing
this year &#8211; more applied/relevant topics.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>There were not as many demos
this year (only 5) &#8211; not worth the trouble for this small number.<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Some options: have them <span
class=GramE>accompany</span> relevant short papers (but note that of 180 short
paper submissions only 10 qualified as “applications” papers); just have open
“show and tell”; or both.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Could we
allow/encourage all authors of accepted papers to have a demo if appropriate
(and even tutorials)?<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Some overlap
between the notion of demos and exhibits.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;
</span>(Note that this year, there were no exhibits chair or exhibits; even
gold sponsors (who are eligible for free exhibit) didn’t want to exhibit.)<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Good to open up <span class=GramE>demos,</span>
but need some incentive structure.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;
</span>Will return consider revised demo policy for 2010.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>There were challenges in setting
all the dates (submission, notification, etc., of all paper types), especially
under time pressures.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>One lesson
from this year &#8211; don’t try to coordinate with SIGIR.<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Suggestion: ACL and NAACL boards should
coordinate some on dates and then turn over some suggestions to the PC chairs.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>IR at the conference: including
IR, QA and TC, about the size of a medium sized area in the conference.<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>(In rest of conference, smallest
workshop is one related to IR, but well-attended tutorial on the topic.)<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Conclusion: There <span class=GramE>is</span>
an insufficient number of submissions to warrant a PC Co-Chair, but the topic
does warrant an Area Chair.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;
</span>(Alternative view: Having a PC Co-Chair sends message that should
encourage more submissions in this area; however, it doesn’t seem to be
working.)</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Workshops schedule is done
independently of local organizers.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;
</span>(Issues with setting up of posters.)<span style="mso-spacerun:
yes">&nbsp; </span>Suggestion: Workshops Chair(s) should play stronger role in
coordination and organization.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;
</span>Should refer this to ACL executive &#8211; broader issue of what the
role of Workshops Chairs should be.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Short papers: implemented
suggestion of having different categories of papers &#8211; negative result
(1), interesting application note (10), small focused contribution (119),
opinion piece (2), work in process (38).<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;
</span>(Numbers indicate majority agreement on category for paper; 170 of 180
papers had such agreement.)<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;
</span>Suggestion: Authors should specify category, not reviewers. Suggestion:<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Need to discuss the issue of short
papers, and different categories, among wider membership, perhaps at Business
Meeting.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Suggestion: It might help
to not call all of these “short papers”, because people are predisposed to
think of short papers in a certain way (just as short versions of regular
conference papers).<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>They did not
select a best short paper. </p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Note that <span class=SpellE>SoftConf</span>
doesn’t allow multiple categories to be checked, or different review forms for
different types of papers.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Also,
it would be nice in <span class=SpellE>SoftConf</span> to have a way to keep
things blind that co-chairs had submitted &#8211; works well for area chairs
but not the higher level.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;
</span>Suggestion: Write these issues up about <span class=SpellE>SoftConf</span>
to submit to them.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Discussion of best papers:
should there be a set of best papers, each named accordingly?</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Suggestion: Lots of interest in
a 10-year best paper award in 2010.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;
</span>How to determine set of papers to select from:<span style="mso-spacerun:
yes">&nbsp; </span>Solicit nominations? Have Board identify possibilities?<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Past PCs of NAACL identify
possibilities?<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Selection committee
should be comprised of past PC chairs.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;
</span>10-year award is different from yearly best paper &#8211; looking for
most influential paper of the decade.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;
</span>Need to develop explicit criteria and name for award.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'>Decisions for 2010 based on 2009 debrief: </b><span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;</span>We will drop the IR Co-Chair, and
maintain the Speech Co-Chair.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>We
will have 3 PC Co-Chairs total &#8211; one Speech, two NLP, one of the latter handling
the short papers.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Try parallel
submission of long and short papers, with common deadlines.<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Reviewers could recommend that a paper
be moved from long to short track (requiring rewrite).</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'>Brief Update on NAACL 2010: <o:p></o:p></b></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Ron Kaplan has agreed to be GC.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Local arrangements are going
fine.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Banquet venue not yet under
contract. <span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;</span>After the current
conference, the activity will pick up.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'>Brief Update on ACL 2011: <o:p></o:p></b></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>The location is still under
discussion, and to be announced in September.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'><u><span style='font-size:14.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt'>Other
Issues:<o:p></o:p></span></u></b></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><span style='font-size:14.0pt;
mso-bidi-font-size:12.0pt'>[The secretary left at this point; the below is
summarized from another member’s notes.]<o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'>Industry Involvement:<o:p></o:p></b></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Need to discuss again the issue
of collocating NAACL with <span class=SpellE>TextAnalytics</span>, with mutual
discounted registration.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Should
also consider other possibilities for collocation (perhaps AMTA?).<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Need to develop a short-term strategy
for NAACL 2010.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'>Regional Conferences:<o:p></o:p></b></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Regional conferences provide
opportunities for community without incurring high travel or registration
costs.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>We can support such
activities with small contribution and link from our home page.<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span><span class=GramE>Discussion of
regularizing this process.</span><span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;
</span>Owen will follow up to see whether NSF funding might be available.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Latin American activities in
particular:<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Isolation is an issue
for this region: language issues; travel from Latin America to US/Canada can be
difficult (visa issues) and expensive.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;
</span>Would be valuable to support regional events, which could benefit from
both the financial support and the formal endorsement by the NAACL, or other
types of activities.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Need to deal
with NAACL name.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'>Vote on Spending for 2009-2010, and Action Items:<o:p></o:p></b></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Voted to continue working with
JHU on supporting summer school attendance at least through 2011, at about
$10K/year.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Need to discuss details
with them, such as registration fee.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;
</span>Also need to follow up on ensuring that the NAACL-financed video
recordings of lectures are available on the web.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Voted on a call for proposals
for hosting a summer school, but there was not unanimous support.<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>This idea needs to be developed
further.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Voted unanimously to approve
proposed budget:</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Hopkins<span style='mso-tab-count:
3'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; </span>$10,000</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>NACLO<span style='mso-tab-count:
3'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; </span>$5,000</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Latin America Fund<span
style='mso-tab-count:2'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; </span>$3,000</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Regional Workshop Fund<span
style='mso-tab-count:1'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; </span>$2,000</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>NAACL student travel fund<span
style='mso-tab-count:1'>&nbsp;&nbsp; </span>$4,000</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>NAACL students tutorials<span
style='mso-tab-count:1'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; </span>$1,000</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'>Total:<span style='mso-tab-count:
1'>&nbsp; </span>$25,000</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><o:p>&nbsp;</o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><o:p>&nbsp;</o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><o:p>&nbsp;</o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-bottom:6.0pt'><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'><o:p>&nbsp;</o:p></b></p>

</div>

</body>

</html>
